A data lake is a system or repository of data stored in its natural raw format,
usually object blobs or files.
A data lake is usually a single store of all enterprise data
including raw copies of source systems data and transformed data.
That was a long definition.
Why can't we make it simpler?
Here is the broken down definition of what data lake is.
It is repository of data.
Stores data in natural form.
Is usually a single store for all enterprise data.
Is used for reporting,
visualization, advanced analytics and machine learning.
Has structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data.
Here's an illustration of a data lake.
It is getting social media data,
multimedia data, and structured data such as customer records.
Data is extracted and loaded to data lake.
From here, it is selected,
organized, and transformed as needed.
Some of the advantages of data lakes are,
vast amount of data can be stored in data lakes.
Data can be structured, semi-structured, or unstructured.
Another advantage of data lakes is processing before loading is not required.
This reduces the turn around time,
the time between when data was generated and when it was used.
A very important aspect of data lakes is they are highly agile.
Like data warehouse, data lakes do not have strict data format requirements.
This means any new source of data can be quickly
added or changes in data source can be quickly absorbed.
The concept of data lakes is still new compared to data warehouse.
What this means is expertise is not easily
available and infrastructure choices are not very many.
Another limiting factor is data governance.
Data governance is ensuring data quality standards are adhered to.
Due to it's free-flowing image,
people might get lags in monitoring quality of data around data lakes.
Data lakes are low cost storages that might
encourage organizations to accumulate unnecessary data.
One more concern with data lakes is around data privacy.
When huge amount of data is moved across the organization are stored in one place,
it can be risky.